# Damage assessment of reinforced concrete frame under mainshock-aftershock based on deep learning considering pre-earthquake damage
A fast and accurate earthquake damage assessment is essential for timely post-earthquake evaluation and rescue. However, existing methods that combine structural and seismic information are inadequate for cumulative damage assessment of structures subjected to mainshock-aftershock (MS-AS) sequences. This study proposes a seismic cumulative damage assessment method for reinforced concrete (RC) frames, integrating pre-earthquake damage, structural features, and ground motion characteristics. Utilizing a convolutional neural network (CNN) and a multi-input network, the method enables rapid prediction the damage index (DI) of each story and the global structure under single or multiple seismic events. To enhance model reliability, a modified loss function and evaluation metric are proposed, incorporating the physical meaning of story numbers and the calculation method of global DI of structure. The model’s performance and generalization are validated on five RC frame structures with varying characteristics. Results indicate that the proposed method achieves high prediction accuracy, with 100% of damage state (DS) classification within an error margin of no more than one level. This demonstrates the method’s potential for reliable and efficient seismic damage assessment.

[1] Gong M, Liu B, Wang X, Zhou B, Zhao Y, Jia J. Damage assessment of reinforced concrete frame under mainshock-aftershock based on deep learning considering pre-earthquake damage. J Build Eng. 2025;100.https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jobe.2024.111729.
